#####Practical No. 05
A: Installation and Configuration of virtualization using KVM.

Software Tools Required
●	Virtual Machine Monitor: VMware Workstation
●	Operating System: Linux
 
Downloads Required:
●	Virtual Machine Monitor: Download VMware Workstation Pro 17.6.0 Build 24238078 for Windows | Uptodown.com
●	Operating System: Download Ubuntu Desktop | Ubuntu (for Linux distribution of your choice)

Open Vmware Workstation and start the steps
Demonstration:
-Create a New Virtual Machine >

-Browse and place the ISO File
Provide full name and user name as example and password and confirm password as linux

-Give virtual machine name as KVM
Provide disk size: 20 , Click on Customize Hardware

-To enable KVM
Check the Virtualize Intel VT if it is required

-Ubuntu, a linux Distribution system will load.

#Ubuntu Setup:
1.Choose Language then click next
2.Then in Accessibility Tab Click next
3.Keyboard Layout As English US then next
4.Connect to Internet then next
5.Tick Install ubuntu then next
6.Interactive then Default Installation
7.Install Proprietary Software (tick both options)
8.Then Tick Erase disk and install ubuntu
9.Then Fill up the following details:

We get the following screen  , Click Restart.
Now login using your password.

#II)	KVM Setup Steps: Open Terminal
1.Update the System
sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade -y

2.Check if Virtualization is Enabled:
sudo grep -c "svm\|vmx" /proc/cpuinfo

3.Verify KVM Virtualization
Check if KVM virtualization is enabled by running command:
kvm-ok
If the kvm-ok command is not found, install the CPU checker tool: sudo apt install cpu-checker
then type kvm-ok
Output should include: 
INFO: /dev/kvm exists
KVM acceleration can be used.

4.Install KVM and Required Packages
   sudo apt install qemu-kvm virt-manager
   libvirt-daemon-system 
   libvirt-clients bridge-utils -y

5.Enable the Virtualization Daemon Start and enable the libvirt daemon:
sudo systemctl enable libvirtd 
sudo systemct 
start libvirtd

6.Check the Status of the Libvirt Daemon
Verify that the daemon is running:
sudo systemctl status libvirtd

7.Not Mandatory: If you want you can also add Your User to KVM and Libvirt Groups
Replace your-username with your actual username and run the following commands:

sudo usermod -aG kvm your-username 
sudo usermod -aG libvirt your-username

8.Log Out and Re-login
Log out from your system and log back in to apply group changes.

9.Run KVM Virtual Machine Manager
Search for "Virtual Machine Manager" in your system applications and launch it.

10.Prepare to Create Virtual Machines
In Virtual Machine Manager, click Create a New Virtual Machine to begin setting up virtual environments.

Now we can create new virtual machine from File>Create New Virtual Machine
Then,-> Select the os to install (eg/:windows, ubuntu etc)
->Then, set the memory and CPU settings.
->Enable storage for virtual machine.
